# unix

1. Replacing or substituting string : Sed command is mostly used to replace the text in a file. The below simple sed command replaces the word “unix” with “linux” in the file.
```bash
sed 's/unix/linux/' geekfile.txt
```

2. Replacing the nth occurrence of a pattern in a line : Use the /1, /2 etc flags to replace the first, second occurrence of a pattern in a line. The below command replaces the second occurrence of the word “unix” with “linux” in a line.
```bash
$sed 's/unix/linux/2' geekfile.txt
```

3. Replacing all the occurrence of the pattern in a line : The substitute flag /g (global replacement) specifies the sed command to replace all the occurrences of the string in the line.
```bash
sed 's/unix/linux/g' geekfile.txt
```
4.Replacing from nth occurrence to all occurrences in a line : Use the combination of /1, /2 etc and /g to replace all the patterns from the nth occurrence of a pattern in a line. The following sed command replaces the third, fourth, fifth… “unix” word with “linux” word in a line.
```bash
sed 's/unix/linux/3g' geekfile.txt
```

5.Parenthesize first character of each word : This sed example prints the first character of every word in parenthesis.
```bash
echo "Welcome To The Geek Stuff" | sed 's/\(\b[A-Z]\)/\(\1\)/g'
```

6.Replacing string on a specific line number : You can restrict the sed command to replace the string on a specific line number. An example is
```bash
sed '3 s/unix/linux/' geekfile.txt
```

7.Duplicating the replaced line with /p flag : The /p print flag prints the replaced line twice on the terminal. If a line does not have the search pattern and is not replaced, then the /p prints that line only once.
```bash
sed 's/unix/linux/p' geekfile.txt
```

8.Printing only the replaced lines : Use the -n option along with the /p print flag to display only the replaced lines. Here the -n option suppresses the duplicate rows generated by the /p flag and prints the replaced lines only one time.
```bash
sed -n 's/unix/linux/p' geekfile.txt
```

9.Replacing string on a range of lines : You can specify a range of line numbers to the sed command for replacing a string.
```bash
sed '1,3 s/unix/linux/' geekfile.txt
```

10.Deleting lines from a particular file : SED command can also be used for deleting lines from a particular file. SED command is used for performing deletion operation without even opening the file
Examples:To Delete a particular line say n in this example
```bash
Syntax:
$ sed 'nd' filename.txt
Example:
$ sed '5d' filename.txt
```

10.2. To Delete a last line
```bash
sed '$d' filename.txt
```

10.3.To Delete line from range x to y
```bash
sed 'x,yd' filename.txt
Example:
sed '3,6d' filename.txt
```

10.4.To Delete line from range x to y
```bash
Syntax:
$ sed 'nth,$d' filename.txt
Example:
$ sed '12,$d' filename.txt
```

10.5.To Delete pattern matching line
```bash
Syntax:
$ sed '/pattern/d' filename.txt
Example:
$ sed '/abc/d' filename.txt
```

-----------------------AWK commands------------------------------------------------------------

11.Default behavior of Awk: By default Awk prints every line of data from the specified file.  
```bash
awk '{print}' employee.txt
```

12.Print the lines which match the given pattern.
```bash
awk '/manager/ {print}' employee.txt 
```

13.Splitting a Line Into Fields
```bash
awk '{print $1,$2}' employee.txt
```

14.Use of NR built-in variables (Display Line Number)  
```bash
awk ' {print NR, $1,$2,$3}' employee.txt
```

15.Use of NF built-in variables (Display Last Field)  
```bash
awk '{print $1,$NF}' employee.txt 
```

16.Another use of NR built-in variables (Display Line From 3 to 6)  
```bash
 awk 'NR==3,NR==6 {print $1,$2,$3}' employee.txt
```
17.To print the first item along with the row number(NR) separated with ” – “ from each line in geeksforgeeks.txt:  
```bash
awk '{print NR "- "$1,$2,$3}' employee.txt
```
18.To count the lines in a file:  
```bash
awk 'END {print NR}' employee.txt
```

19.To find the length of the longest line present in the file
```bash
awk '{ if (length($0) > max) max = length($0) } END { print max }' employee.txt
```

19.Printing lines with more than 10 characters:  
```bash
awk 'length($0) > 10' employee.txt
```

20. To print the squares of first numbers from 1 to n say 6: 
```bash
 awk 'BEGIN { for(i=1;i<=6;i++) print "square of", i, "is",i*i; }'
```

10.5.To Delete pattern matching line
```bash
sed '/pattern/d' filename.txt
Example:
sed '/abc/d' filename.txt
```

